Chapter 1 : “Understand cloud concepts”
---------

1.1 DESCRIBE THE BENEFITS AND CONSIDERATIONS OF USING CLOUD SERVICES:
> High Availabity: 
    SLA (Service-level agreement): Garante um certo nível de disponibilidade em porcentagem. 
                                    Garante um tempo de atividade de cerca de 100%
    - Network outage:
    - Application failure:  Application Inseghts integration with your application to give you detailed 
                            information about the performance and reliability of your application.
    - System outage: 
    - Power outage
    - Problems with a reliant system

> Scalability, Elasticity and agility
 * Scalability: horizontal scaling (scaling out) aumenta o número de VM´s.
                verical scaling (scaling up) aumenta o poder da VM's.
 * Elasticity: Cloud providers give you ways to automatically scale based on usage patterns, resource utilization, and times of day.
                The concept of automatically scaling based on the usage patter for your application.
 * Agility: kind of speed and flexibility to quickly scale in the cloud.

 > Fault tolerance and disaster recovery: Is designed to deal with failure at a small scale, moving you,
 for example, from an unhealthy VM to a healthy VM. Disaster recovery plans are commonly referred to as 
 Business Continuaty and Disaster Recovery (BCDR) plans.

 > Economic benefits of the cloud: 
    - On-Promises Model (Modelo Local): 
    - Cloud Model (Modelo em nuvem): offers many economic benefits over the op-promises model

1.2 DESCRIBE THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN INFRASTRUCTURE-AS-A-SERVICE (IAAS), 
    PLATFORM-AS-A-SERVICE (PAAS), AND SOFTWARE-AS-A-SERVICE (SAAS): Offerings in the cloud are typically 
    referred as a services. Each type of service comes with advantages and disadvantages.

    IaaS: Infrastructure refers to the hardware that your application uses, and IaaS refers to the 
    virtualized infrastructure offered by a cloud provider. Iaas services allow you to control costs effectively,
    because your only pay for them when you are using them. Iaas benefit from scaling and elasticity.

    PaaS: a cloud provider still provides the infrastructure for you, but they also provide the operating system, software installed in the 
    operating system to help you connect to databases end network systems (often referred to as middleware), and many features that enable
    you to build and manage complex cloud applications. Offer you the flexibility of controlling the application, but they affload management 
    and control of the underlying systems to the cloud provider. 

    As you've learned, IaaS requires you to control both the operating system and middleware components along
    with your application. When you move to PaaS, you affload the control of the operating system and middleware
    components to the cloud provider, and you're reponsible only application code. 

    SaaS: the cloud provider controls everything. In other words, a SaaS service is software provided by a cloud provider
    that's install on infrastructure completely controlled by the hosting provider. offer you the flexibility of a pay-as-you-go model.
    Essentially, you rent your software from a service provider. When using a SaaS service, not only do you benefit from using software written and
    mainteined by someone else, but you can also benefit from allowing the cloud provider to maintain and configure the application.

1.3: DESCRIBE THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN PUBLIC, PRIVATE, AND HYBRID CLOUD MODELS: The traditional cloud model is referred to as the public cloud. 
     In addition to a public cloud model, businesses can also use a private cloud where the infrastructure is dedicated to them. 
     Finally, a hybrid cloud model represents a mixture of public and private cloud models.

     Public cloud:  Is the most common cloud model. You use a shared infrestructure that is acessible on the public network. 
     The network,storage, and VMs that your application uses are provided by a cloud provider and shared between all consumers of the public cloud.
     Microsogt Azure is an example of a public cloud. Another advantage is that you can control costs more efficiently because you only pay for
     the resources you are using.
        Disadvantages: You give up some control of the infrastructure. Security concerns with operating (public Internet).
        Another disadvantage is that it locks you into the specific configuration defined by the cloud provider.

    Private cloud: Two of the main reasons why companies choose a private cloud are: privacy and regulatory concerns.
    Unlike the public cloud, private clouds operate on a private network that is only accessible by a single organization.
    Disadvantages: If you are hosting your private cloud on-premises, you will likely spend as much on IT as you would in a non-cloud environment.

    Hybrid Cloud: Are a mixture of public and private cloud.


Chapter 2: Understand core Azure services
---------

2.1 UNDERSTAND THE CORE AZURE ARCHITECTURAL COMPONENTS
    - Azure regions: In order to provide Azure services to people around the world, Microsoft has created boundaries called geographies.
                     The fact that each geography contains at least two regions separated by a large physical distance is important. That’s how Azure maintains disaster recovery.
                     At each region, Microsoft has built datacenters (physical buildings) that contain the physical hardware that Azure uses.
    
    - Availability zones: The fact that regions are physically separated by hundreds of miles protects Azure users from data-loss and application outages due to disasters.
                          However, it’s also important that data and applications maintain availability when a problem occurs at a particular datacenter within a region. Microsoft developed availability zones.
                          There are at least three availability zones within each enabled region, and because each availability zone exists within its own datacenter in that region, each has a water supply, 
                          cooling system, network, and power supply that is isolated from other zones.
                          There are two categories of services that support availability zones: 
                            * zonal services: Zonal services are services such as virtual machines, managed disks used in a virtual machine, and public IP addresses used in virtual machines.
                            * zone-redundant services: services such as zone-redundant storage and SQL Databases.
    
    - Azure Resource Manager (ARM): is a service that runs in Azure, and it’s responsible for all interaction with Azure services.
                                    In order to make it easier to deploy and manage Azure services.
                                    When you create a new Azure service, ARM authenticates you to make sure you have the right access to create that resource, and then it talks to a resource provider for the service you’re creating.
                                    The flow of a typical ARM request to create or manage a resource is straightforward. A tool such as the Azure portal, command-line tools, or Visual Studio makes a request to the ARM API. 
                                    The API passes that request to ARM where the user is authenticated and authorized to perform the action. ARM then passes the request to a resource provider, and the resource provider creates the new resource or modifies an existing resource.
                                    ARM has many benefits, and you should be aware of these for your exam: 
                                        * ARM allows you to easily deploy multiple Azure resources at once. 
                                        * ARM makes it possible to reproduce any deployment with consistent results at any point in the future. 
                                        * ARM allows you to create declarative templates for deployment instead of requiring you to write and maintain complex deployment scripts.
                                        * ARM makes it possible to set up dependencies so that your resources are deployed in the right order every time.

    - Resource groups: 










    
    




 